Comp 590 A1

Unity Assets Imported:
https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/3d/environments/landscapes/mountain-terrain-rocks-and-tree-97905 For Trees
https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/3d/props/weapons/axe-45935 For the Axe
https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/2d/textures-materials/nature/terrain-textures-pack-free-139542 For the terrain color


Is this a game?

In my case the game I built is one where there is a lumberjack in a small forest and he has to clear the trees within a forest. It's a pretty simple game where the task is to get rid of all the trees within the area by throwing an axe at them and chopping them down. Based on Schell a game was described as a problem solving activity that was undertaken with a playful attitude. I think that my game could easily be described as a problem solving activity even though the problem is simple it's just getting rid of all the trees, if done with a playful attitude it would qualify. The goal of the player is to figure out how to throw the axes to remove all tress. As for the 6 features in the definition by Juul I think my game can meet those as well. The first feature was that the game was rule-based which mine is. There are limits of how many trees have been placed, and how far axes can be thrown. There are variable outcomes such that either all trees are destroyed or the lumberjack wasn't able to chop down everything. The different values assigned to each outcome come from whether the player is able to acomplush the goal. The fourth condition of player effort is satisifed since the player has to aim the camera towards a tree to be able to properly chop it down. For the fifth rule the player is attached towards the outcome since the player wants to beat the game and chop down all the trees. And finally the sixth rule of negotiable consequences fits because it's doesn't really matter if you win or lose the consequences are just in the game. Finally I think under my own definition of game that I came up with in class was initially "An Immersive activity that one does to have fun". I think this also qualifies under this since it's immersive in that by being a VR application the player is able to be an activity that the player can feel presence in and also the features of the terrain and the grass makes it more immersive and even though the game is quite simple it's possible to have fun so I do believe that it is a game
